



Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                             A. Yu
Request for Comments: 65535                              7 February 2022
Category: Informational                                                 
ISSN: 2070-1721


                      Internet Delay Chat Protocol

Abstract

   THIS DOCUMENT IS A DRAFT.  THE "STATUS OF THIS MEMO" IS FALSE.

   This document specifies a new Internet Protocol for Instant Messaging
   over the Internet.

Status of This Memo

   This document is not an Internet Standards Track specification; it is
   published for informational purposes.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Not all documents
   approved by the IESG are candidates for any level of Internet
   Standard; see Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc65535.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the
   Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as described
   in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Servers
     1.2.  Clients
   Appendix A.  Acknowledgements
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   The IDC (Internet Delay Chat) protocol has been designed over a
   number of days for use with federated multimedia conferencing.  This
   document describes the current IDC protocol.

   IDC itself is a messaging system, which (through the use of the
   client-server and server-to-server model) is well-suited to running
   on many machines in a distributed fashion.  A typical setup involves
   multiple servers each with multiple clients, that connect to each
   other in order to exchange messages, in a multi-centered fashion.

   Internet Relay Chat as in RFC 1459 has been in use since May 1993, a
   very simple protocol for teleconferencing system.  Later updates such
   as RFC 2812 have been badly accepted.  It was not designed for
   personal instant messaging.

   IRC is real time.  When a client disconnects, the server no longer
   recognizes the client, and messages during the client's downtime are
   not saved.  This renders IRC unfit for instant messaging, where
   clients are forced to disconnect but messages are to be read later.
   IRC is not federated, causing most people to be on the few large
   networks, imparing user freedom.

   Most modern IRC networks use dedicated "services" servers for user,
   channel, group, etc. management and dedicated client bots for
   extensible channel management.  Compared with these features built
   into the server, this is ineffective and redundent.

   The Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol was designed for
   presense, instant messaging, and conferences.  However, it is based
   on XML, and implementations are large and buggy.  IRC is a simple
   text-oriented protocol, where implementing is more straightforward
   and is harder to bug.

   Blah blah blah.

   SMS does not work over the Internet, and is generally expensive.

1.1.  Servers

   The server forms the backbone of IDC, providing a point to which
   clients may connect to to talk to each other, and a point for other
   servers to connect to, forming the global IDC network.  The only
   network configuration allowed for IDC servers is that of a mesh where
   each server connects to other servers directly.

1.2.  Clients

   A client is anything connecting to a server that is not another
   server.  Each client is distinguished from other clients by a unique
   CID having a length of 9 characters, private to each server.  In
   addition to the nickname, the server must have the following
   information about the client: the real name of the host that the
   client is running on, the username of the client on that host, and
   the server to which the client is connected.

Appendix A.  Acknowledgements

   This document has multiple ideas suggested by Test_User
   <hax@andrewyu.org> and luk3yx.

Author's Address

   Andrew Yu
   Shanghai
   China

   Email: andrew@andrewyu.org
